fix(prqlc): allow `prqlc compile | duckdb` (#2594)
PrQL/prql: prql-compiler/prqlc/README.md

## Installation

`prqlc` is a single, dependency-free binary that compiles PRQL into SQL.
precompiled binaries are available for Linux, macOS, and Windows on the
[PRQL release page](https://github.com/PRQL/prql/releases).

> If you have Rust toolchain installed, you can install `prqlc` via `cargo`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`prqlc` can be installed via `cargo`:
```

I'm trying to keep a similar voice throughout the docs, and one way to do that is to not use the 2nd person ("you")...

```sh
# From crates.io
cargo install prqlc
```

```sh

> # From GitHub

Reviewer: I think we do want to indicate that it's from local files — i.e. it's not installing from github.com. 

How about "from a local PRQL repo"?

## Usage

### prqlc compile

> This command is working as a filter to compile PRQL string into SQL string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command compiles a PRQL string into a SQL string.
```
(I wasn't sure what "filter" means — feel free to have another pass if my change isn't what you were aiming for)

Author: I meant this. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filter_(software)#Unix
Makes sense?

Reviewer: Interesting, I wasn't so familiar with the terminology, but you're right! TIL

WHERE
  has_dog
```

PRQL query can be executed with CLI tools working with SQL, such as
[DuckDB CLI](https://duckdb.org/docs/api/cli.html).

```sh

> $ curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mwaskom/seaborn-data/master/penguins.csv -o penguins.csv

Author: Simply I used the same file as below. Please replace with a more appropriate file.
https://github.com/PRQL/prql/blob/5c6491dfdd9542bbde9e5efbb12e5e81d860c956/web/book/src/integrations/jupyter.md?plain=1#L29

│ species │  island   │ bill_length_mm │ bill_depth_mm │ flipper_length_mm │ body_mass_g │   sex   │
│ varchar │  varchar  │     double     │    double     │       int64       │    int64    │ varchar │
├─────────┼───────────┼────────────────┼───────────────┼───────────────────┼─────────────┼─────────┤
│ Adelie  │ Torgersen │           39.1 │          18.7 │               181 │        3750 │ MALE    │
│ Adelie  │ Torgersen │           39.5 │          17.4 │               186 │        3800 │ FEMALE  │
│ Adelie  │ Torgersen │           40.3 │          18.0 │               195 │        3250 │ FEMALE  │
└─────────┴───────────┴────────────────┴───────────────┴───────────────────┴─────────────┴─────────┘
```

Executing this command without any argument will start interactive mode,
allowing you to write PRQL query interactively. In this mode, after you write
PRQL and press `Ctrl-D` (Linux, macOS) or `Ctrl-Z` (Windows) to display the
compiled SQL.

```sh
$ prqlc compile
```

As with using it as a filter, you can pass the SQL string output to the DuckDB
CLI, etc.

```sh
$ prqlc compile | duckdb
from `penguins.csv`

> take 3

Reviewer: Hmmm, this doesn't work so well on mine — does it for you?

I think maybe we write the `Ctrl-d` to stdout?

```
prqlc compile | duckdb
from `penguins.csv`
take 3
Error: near line 1: Parser Error: syntax error at or near "Enter"
LINE 1: Enter PRQL, then ctrl-d:
        ^
```

(Is there a way of retaining the query? I worry this approach is OK but loses the query on each run. But it's still reasonable to show the example)

Author: It seems that the `prqlc` you are using was not built from this PR. (the prompt message is different)

Author: > Is there a way of retaining the query?

I believe the query will remain visible in the terminal as shown in this README, and I have verified that it works with bash and fish on Linux and PowerShell on Windows.

Reviewer: > It seems that the `prqlc` you are using was not built from this PR. (the prompt message is different)

Sorry, you're correct, apologies

Reviewer: > I believe the query will remain visible in the terminal as shown in this README, and I have verified that it works with bash and fish on Linux and PowerShell on Windows.

Yes!

A total aside — something @snth and I discussed on the dev call was building a TUI, similar to the playground, where typing a query would pipe through to duckdb on each keystroke, could be a good way of exploring a dataset from the terminal
